Creating Routes in Express
==========================
With the current state of our application, the bookmarks collection is simply rendered to the homepage.

Defining Routes for Create/Read/Update/Delete
---------------------------------------------
We are going to add three routes:

* / - The home or 'index' route. List the bookmarks ordered by create time descending
* /bookmarks/add
* /bookmarks/:id - Show the full detail for a single bookmark, identified by the :id parameter.
* /bookmarks/:id/edit - Edit the details for a single bookmark, identified by the :id parameter.

Introducing Express
-------------------
We are going to be using Express to define our routes. Routes is a minimal web application framework for Node.js, providing the basic functionality to do routing and templating.

Defining our application dependencies
-------------------------------------
Our application is going to depend on several npm modules. The easiest way to keep track of those dependencies is to create a package.json file.

npm uses a package.json file to describe your application and it's dependencies. We're going to have npm create a package.json file for us using npm init. From the command line:

    npm init

The `npm init` command will walk us through creating a package.json file, and will ask us to supply a name, version, description,

    name: (workspace) bookmarks
    version: (0.0.0) 4.0.0
    description: Bookmarks is a simple, social bookmarking service that allows users to keep track of their favorite places on the web. It provides a simple and beautiful listing of bookmarks, and provides the capability to search, sort, tag, favorite, and share their collection of links.
    entry point: (index.js) app.js
    test command:
    git repository: (https://github.com/unioncollege-webtech/bookmarks.git)
    keywords:
    author: Benjamin Barber
    license: (ISC) MIT
    About to write to /home/ubuntu/workspace/package.json:

    {
      "name": "bookmarks",
      "version": "4.0.0",
      "description": "The project is a simple, social bookmarking service that allows users to keep track of their favorite places on the web. It provides a simple and beautiful listing of bookmarks, and provides the capability to search, sort, tag, favorite, and share their collection of links.",
      "main": "app.js",
      "scripts": {
        "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
      },
      "repository": {
        "type": "git",
        "url": "https://github.com/unioncollege-webtech/bookmarks.git"
      },
      "author": "Benjamin Barber",
      "license": "MIT",
      "bugs": {
        "url": "https://github.com/unioncollege-webtech/bookmarks/issues"
      },
      "homepage": "https://github.com/unioncollege-webtech/bookmarks"
    }


    Is this ok? (yes) yes

We now have a package.json file that describes our project.

Installing Express
------------------

    npm install --save express


Creating an app.js file
-----------------------
In app.js:

    var express = require('express');
    var app = express();

    // Set up the `index` route.
    app.get('/', function(req, res) {
        res.send('Hello from Express!');
    });

    // Start listening on port 8080 and the ip address 0.0.0.0 (Cloud9 defaults)
    app.listen(8080, '0.0.0.0');


Start the web server by running:

    node app.js

Or in Cloud9, open the app.js file and click the green 'Run' button in the menu bar.

Once express is running, we can open https://webtech-c9-barberboy.c9.io in our browser and see our message

Serving pages
-------------
Create new directory, `public`. Put data, scripts, and styles directories inside.

    var express = require('express');
    var app = express();

    app.use(express.static(__dirname + '/public'));

    app.get('/', function(req, res) {
        res.sendFile(__dirname + '/index.html');
    });

    app.listen(8080, '0.0.0.0');


[package.json]: https://www.npmjs.org/doc/files/package.json.html